I guess I'd say that I didn't really
have the courage to say yes I am good at
teaching until I opened the envelope
from president better last month and
learn that I've got the award so was
everybody was very nice for me how that
validation that yes you are good at
teaching it's not just that you enjoy
but there is objective evidence to say
that the students liked it and the
institution likes it you're my first
teaching job was teaching a small school
in a village in rural Africa so I'd
never talked before I was thrown into
this on on the grounds i suppose that
sir I've been to England and therefore I
should have been educated and so I
essentially wind it from the from the
beginning but one of the things that
struck me very early on was the element
of theatre in teaching that the fact
that unless you've got the students
attention then doesn't matter what you
say because they're not listening hey
it's virtually a state religion these
days I suppose in school that students
are indoctrinated with importance of
saving energy keeping environment clean
of Satan rainforests etc so in order to
talk to them about this important
subject it's no use going on saying the
same things they've been hearing for six
years in school one's got some how to
bring them to see it for the first time
and ask different questions so when I
tackle this and lectures I have a
simple and apparently scientific proof
that the best way to tackle global
warming is to clear-cut the rainforests
immediately and if nothing else it gets
them awake and ready to hear what comes
next the important thing isn't any
particular set of answers the important
thing is the desire to explore one's
ignorance to remain aware that there are
things one doesn't know that remain to
be found out so it's not so much for me
a question of transferring any
particular body of knowledge as of
sharing a sense of curiosity there's got
to be the ability on the part of the
teacher to go back to the students frame
of mind to go back to what it's like to
be a beginner not to know the basics of
the field and to rediscover the the
process of exploring the subject for the
first time it's always been my feeling
that learning is valuable in itself
knowledge is valuable in itself and I'd
like us to send that message out to the
world that we're not valuable because we
would increase employment we're not
valuable because will benefit the
economy we're valuable because the
pursuit of knowledge is one of the
things that humanity is about it's one
of the things that has value
irrespective of whether it does any good
in any other way whatsoever
and I'd like us to say that to our
students I'd like us to say that to the
world zone